All of us around the world rejoice with you baptismal candidates.
This is a very special occasion for you.
Today you will join millions of your brothers and sisters
in a very special relationship with Jehovah.
I want you to imagine for a moment that you're in a very large stadium
and there's eight and a half million of your brothers and sisters
all in this stadium, clapping and so happy
to see the stand you're taking for Jehovah today.
Some of you are young ones that are raised in the truth
and you're sitting with your parents and family.
Others of you may have known the truth years ago
and have recently returned to Jehovah.
Others may have learned the truth recently
and even under these unusual circumstances
of a pandemic in Zoom meetings
have come to the point of dedicating your life to Jehovah.
Whatever your circumstances,
we are so happy that you've made the decision to get baptized.
Now the theme of our talk with you baptism candidates
is exercising faith means everlasting life.
There's two key words here, exercising and faith.
Faith is your trust and confidence in Jehovah and his promises.
And exercising your faith is living your life to do God's will.
You've shown your faith by working hard to qualify for baptism today.
Now faith is a little bit like building a wood fire.
If you want to build a fire,
you first have to collect some small pieces of wood
and then later you need to have on hand some larger pieces of wood
to keep the fire going.
Likewise, your baptism today is the start of your fire of faith.
Now it's not easy to start a fire at times.
The wood may be wet, the wind keeps blowing out your flame.
Likewise, it may not have been easy for you to get the fire of your faith started.
You have taken the time and effort to build your fire of faith.
Now you need to keep that fire of faith burning.
Why?
Well, because our faith can become weak,
unless we work to keep it strong.
On one occasion, Jesus said to some of his disciples that they had little faith.
Let's look at that in Matthew chapter 17 and verse 20.
Matthew 17-20.
He said to them,
Because of your little faith,
for truly I say to you,
if you have faith the size of a mustard grain,
you will say to this mountain,
move from here to there,
and it will move,
and nothing will be impossible for you.
Jesus was letting them know that they needed to make their faith stronger.
Now after a fire gets started,
it can often get very large and very hot.
But if there's no wood added to the fire, what happens?
It soon goes out and turns to just cold ashes.
So in order for us to keep our fire of faith burning,
we need to keep feeding it.
Likewise, your fire of faith needs constant attention to keep burning hot and bright.
Let's consider three questions.
One, how can you feed your fire of faith?
Two, what does it mean to exercise faith?
And three, how will Jehovah reward your faith?
Before we answer those questions though,
we will talk to two baptized witnesses
who have taken steps to make their faith stronger.
First, let's talk to Yoni Palmo.
Brother Palmo and his wife, Ellie,
serve at Bethel in Finland,
and he has faithfully served Jehovah for 60 years.
And I want you to note,
what help Brother Palmo face a test of his faith early in his pioneering?
Brother Palmo, can you recall a time when you had little faith?
Yes, I can recall,
when I was 17,
I moved to serve as an auxiliary pioneer
with an isolated group far away from my home.
There, I faced very religious people who were convinced that we witnesses were wrong
and that I was badly misled.
There are questions about scriptures I never encountered in my former territory.
The people were very convincing with their arguments
and I felt confused and lost.
I asked myself, are there other questions too?
I don't have answers to.
And this started little, my little,
bothering me and tested my faith.
So there you were, young and isolated with all those questions.
What did you do to strengthen your faith?
I didn't have bound volumes,
know what's the library or those kinds of tools.
So I wrote a letter to my Leslie Brothers
who at that time went prison because of refusing military service.
I knew that they had all of our literates there
and they were studying every day the Bible-like scholars.
They saw my situation
and they sent me a letter with answers to all my questions.
I was so happy and thankful to Hova.
It really strengthened my faith.
Jehovah used your brothers in prison to help you.
So how do you think you benefited from strengthening your faith?
This experience was decisive, a hallmark to my whole spiritual life.
I understood the value of accurate knowledge
and I started to collect a library of my own.
I still have my early library,
and to me it is something very special.
This experience happened 56 years ago,
and since then I have not had any such doubts.
Jehovah has given us all the answers we need to know.
And even if there are questions,
we don't have answers to at the moment.
I have faith that they will be answered by Jehovah in his due time.
Thank you, Brother Palmo.
Your experience really helps us to appreciate the Bible's answers
to life's most complex questions.
Next we can talk to Frankie Brown.
Brother Brown and his wife Karen serve at Bethel
in the United States.
And I want you to pay close attention to what helped Brother Brown
to make the decision to dedicate his life to Jehovah.
Brother Brown, can you recall a time when you had little faith?
Until the age of 12, I was raised by my grandmother
who studied with Jehovah's Witnesses.
This is how I was introduced to the truth,
and I studied off and on growing up.
At 17, like many young people,
I faced a decision of what to do with my life after school.
Many around me just assumed I'd go off to college and pursue a career.
However, from my study of the Bible,
I knew I had another choice to make, to serve Jehovah.
This was a big decision for me.
At times, I had no idea what I wanted to do.
I was inexperienced and unsure about whose advice to take.
The Bibles or that of well-meaning family and friends.
That's quite a challenging decision for you at that age to make.
What did you do to strengthen your faith?
I realized that I needed to know Jehovah better
and what was involved in serving him.
So I resumed my Bible study and attendance at Christian meetings.
I also began to do personal study.
One personal study project was Psalm 119.
This beautiful Psalm helped me to view Jehovah as the loving father I never had.
It also helped me to see the wisdom of living in harmony with the Bible standards.
For example, Psalm 119.99 says,
I have more insight than all my teachers because I ponder over your reminders.
Essentially, the Psalmist was saying that Jehovah was his guidance counselor.
Also, I benefited from the good example of the brothers and sisters in my congregation.
They had already made the decision to serve Jehovah.
And from their life, it was obvious they were truly happy and had a meaningful life.
This convinced me that serving Jehovah, that was the best way to use my life.
I thanked Jehovah for their good example and for their efforts to help me at a time when I needed more faith.
Your personal study and help from the brothers and sisters in your congregation really helped you.
So how do you think you benefited from strengthening your faith?
I got baptized, started pioneering, and some years later was invited to Bethel.
From my youth onward, I have found security and stability in my relationship with Jehovah.
When I look back on my decision to dedicate my life to Jehovah,
without a doubt, that's the best decision I've ever made.
Whether young or old, Jehovah will not let you down when you need him the most.
Thank you, Brother Brown. You made a good choice.
Let's go back to our three questions. Consider our first question.
How can you feed the fire of your faith?
Well, the Bible is our main source of fuel to feed the fire of our faith.
To feed the fire of our faith, we need to do two things.
We need to read God's Word and meditate on it.
Now, reading God's Word is like adding wood to our fire.
And meditation is a lot like fanning the flames.
Let's discuss these one at a time.
First, let's use the example of the Psalmist in Psalm chapter 1, verses 1 through 3.
Psalm chapter 1, verses 1 through 3.
Happy is the man who does not walk according to the advice of the wicked,
and does not stand on the path of sinners, and does not sit in the seat of scoffers.
But his delight is in the law of Jehovah, and he reads his law in an undertone day and night.
He will be like a tree planted by streams of water, a tree that produces fruit in its season,
the foliage of which does not wither, and everything he does will succeed.
Well, we want to be like that man in this Psalm.
His delight is in the law of Jehovah.
When we find delight or pleasure in reading God's Word,
it's not like we have to read God's Word, we want to read God's Word.
He reads his law day and night.
Jehovah wants us to read his Word often.
Prayer is when we speak to Jehovah.
But reading the Bible is when he speaks to us.
I'd like you to notice the beautiful mental picture that Isaiah gives us of how Jehovah speaks to us,
in Isaiah chapter 30 and verse 21.
And your own ears will hear a word behind you saying,
this is the way, walk in it, in case you should go to the right,
or in case you should go to the left.
Well, why do we hear Jehovah's voice behind us instead of in front of us?
Well, for one thing, Jehovah's words in the Bible were written many years ago,
or we could say in the time or past behind us.
But there's another way to visualize this verse.
Maybe you've been with a group, with some small children,
and you're walking somewhere, where often are the children?
They're out in front, running ahead, even if they don't really know where they're going.
And what do the parents behind have to do?
Well, they have to call to them and say, no, no, no, no, no,
not that way, we're going to the left here, and the children run back,
and that's the direction that they go in.
Surely we want to listen carefully for Jehovah's voice behind us,
helping us to make the right decisions.
Try to schedule Bible reading as part of your daily routine.
As a suggestion, you can use the schedule for Bible reading that's found on jdb.org.
To find it, type schedule for Bible reading in the search field at the top right.
If you read just three to five chapters every day,
you can complete the entire Bible in just one year.
But simply reading God's Word is not enough.
You need to meditate on what you're reading.
Or why should you meditate on what you read in God's Word?
Well, it's because knowing what the right thing is to do and doing it are not the same.
Meditation is the process of converting knowledge.
That is what we know into wise decisions and actions.
The Bible often associates meditation with the heart.
Now, why is that?
Because meditation can convert knowledge.
That is what we know into feelings.
And it is those feelings that drive our actions and decisions.
We could kind of think of meditation like a bridge.
On this side of the river, we have knowing what is the right thing to do.
And on this side, we have actually doing it.
Meditation is the bridge that closes the gap between knowing and doing.
And if we find ourselves always kind of knowing what the right thing is to do,
but not actually doing it,
meditation is the bridge to help us close that gap between knowing and doing.
Well, how can you meditate on God's Word?
Well, after reading a portion of the Bible or one of our publications,
take a few moments to think deeply about what you have read.
Ask yourself,
what do I learn about Jehovah when I read this account?
How does this account make me feel about Jehovah?
How can I apply this in my life?
Or how can I use this to help others?
So let's review our first question.
How can you feed the fire of your faith?
Read and meditate on God's Word each day.
Let's look at our second question.
What does it mean to exercise faith?
Well, Jesus told us that more was required than just believing in Him.
Let's read John chapter 3 and verse 16 to see the emphasis that Jesus put on exercising faith.
John chapter 3 and verse 16.
For God loved the world so much that He gave His only begotten Son
so that everyone exercising faith in Him might not be destroyed
but have ever lasting life.
So what then does it mean to exercise faith?
A study note on this verse explains
to exercise faith includes the idea of demonstrating one strong beliefs or faith by obeying God.
Now Abraham was a powerful example of proving his faith by obedience.
Let's look at a very wonderful description of Abraham's faith in James chapter 2 and verses 21 through 23.
James chapter 2 verses 21 through 23.
Was not Abraham our father declared righteous by works after he offered up Isaac's son on the altar?
You see that his faith was active along with his works and his faith was perfected by his works.
And the scripture was fulfilled that says Abraham put faith in Jehovah and it was counted to him as righteousness
and he came to be called Jehovah's Friend.
One way read and we meditate on the account of Abraham,
we can feel the emotions that he must have felt and being asked to offer up his son Isaac,
the only son that he and Sarah had.
How could Abraham make such a very difficult decision?
Well long before this, Abraham had made a decision that he would obey Jehovah and serve him in everything.
And that decision years before to obey Jehovah and all things helped Abraham to make all the other decisions in life clear what he should do.
He did not always have to consider should I do what Jehovah asks or not?
As difficult a request as it was to offer up his son, Abraham did not delay and took action immediately to obey Jehovah's request.
Now by your baptism today, you're telling everyone that you have dedicated your life to Jehovah to serve and obey him for the rest of your life.
Now let's consider three scriptures and see how you can show your faith by your actions.
Once we read each scripture, we'll consider each scripture as part of your dedication promise and how you can show your faith in action.
Our first scripture is Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 25.
Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 25.
Not forsaking our meetings together as some have the custom, but encouraging one another and all the more so as you see the day drawing near.
Your dedication promise, I will attend all meetings, assemblies and conventions.
Well how do you show that by faith in action?
Well you really need a job, but you say no to a job that would mean that you would regularly miss meetings.
You don't have to decide should I go to meetings or not?
You've already made that decision when you dedicated yourself to Jehovah.
Our second scripture at Romans chapter 10 and verse 10.
For with the heart one exercises faith for righteousness, but with the mouth one makes public declaration for salvation.
So your dedication promise, I want everyone to know about Jehovah.
Your faith in action? Well going to bed early so that you can get up for field service the next morning.
Auxiliary pioneering when you can.
You schedule field service first and then other activities later in the day or adapting to different forms of the ministry like telephone witnessing or letter writing.
Our third scripture mark chapter 11 and verse 24 mark chapter 11 and verse 24.
This is why I tell you all the things you pray and ask for have faith that you have received them and you will have them.
Well your dedication promise, I will constantly seek Jehovah's direction in prayer.
Your faith in action? When you're tempted to play a violent video game, you reject that game and play something else.
When faced with a serious illness, you pray for calm and wisdom to make good decisions.
When you feel yourself getting angry with someone, you pray for self control.
Now we could use many more scriptures and we could give you many more examples of how you can exercise and show your faith by your actions.
The point is that you baptismal candidates have dedicated your life to Jehovah and to do his will.
This one decision to dedicate your life and to live by his standards sets the spiritual and moral foundation for all the decisions you will make from this day forward.
So let's review our second question. What does it mean to exercise faith?
We show our faith by our obedience to God.
Now let's go to our third question. How will Jehovah reward your faith?
Jehovah loves his faithful worshippers. He wants the best for us and he wants us to be happy.
Jehovah sees every time you do something to demonstrate your faith, to show faith in action, to be obedient to him.
Now some feel that God or Jehovah is always watching out for the bad things they do. Maybe keeping a ledger track of all these things bad that a person does.
But Jehovah is not doing that. He's actually looking for the good and rejoicing in the good that we are doing.
We could kind of illustrate it the way that many of us are taking so many pictures these days. We all have phones, cameras, we're taking lots of pictures.
And maybe you've noticed that at one point you take a picture of one of your friends and they have kind of a funny look on their face or they are in the middle of eating something.
If you show your friend that picture, what do they often say? Could you please delete that?
That's not the picture they want you to show to other people and that's not the picture you want to show of them.
Now I want you to imagine for a moment that Jehovah has a digital photo album of you.
Which pictures do you think he's keeping there?
The ones where we made serious mistakes? The ones where we did something dumb?
No, based on your repentance and the ransom sacrifice, those are deleted. They're gone.
He has in his photo album of you the beautiful pictures, the beautiful moments that he's proud of that you showed your faith in action.
Jehovah wants to reward your faith in Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 6.
We can see how Jehovah feels about his servants by what he says here about rewarding them.
Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 6.
Moreover, without faith it is impossible to please God well for whoever approaches God must believe that he is and that he becomes the reworder of those earnestly seeking him.
So when listing all these other examples of faith there in chapter 11 of Hebrews, the Apostle Paul pauses for a moment to remind us that Jehovah becomes the reworder of those earnestly seeking him.
Now when you take the time and effort to build a fire, what reward do you get in return?
Well you get the warmth and light of that fire. You can keep yourself and others warm by the fire.
And a fire gives off a beautiful light that can be very welcome on a dark night.
The sounds of a crackling fire can make us feel safe and happy.
How will Jehovah reward his faithful worshipers for their fire of faith?
Well ultimately he will reward us with everlasting life.
During his ministry, Jesus repeatedly promised that his faithful servants would get everlasting life.
Just as Jehovah provided the rewards of a wood fire, he also provides many gifts that come when we build and feed our fire of faith.
Consider some of the rewards that Jehovah gives us now.
The reward of his word, the Bible, gives us the best advice for life.
It lights our way in a spiritually dark world.
The reward of the ministry, the most satisfying work that we can do.
The reward of Holy Spirit, a powerful helper in times of trials, remember you are never alone.
And the reward of our loving group of brothers and sisters around the world, a source of great warmth and comfort.
In conclusion, let's review our three questions.
1. How can you feed your fire of faith?
Read and meditate on God's word each day.
2. What does it mean to exercise faith?
We show our faith by our obedience to God.
3. How will Jehovah reward your faith?
Everlasting life.
Please take note of this day. Remember it. Write it down.
Each time you hear baptism talk in the future, take that opportunity to reflect on your baptism.
And the many blessings that you have received because of the decision that you made to dedicate your life to Jehovah.
Jehovah, want you to be happy and to enjoy life.
All 8.5 million plus of your brothers and sisters that are watching this program are with you and heart and mind, and we want you to be happy.
Keep clear in mind, though, that happiness is not something that you can buy for yourself or get for yourself or you can't get it by loving yourself.
Just like the warmth and light are byproducts of a wood fire, so to happiness is a byproduct of faith and love for others and for Jehovah.
We could say that happiness is the warmth and glow from love's fire.
The world will tell you you can follow your dreams. You can be anything you want to be.
But it is far better to let Jehovah dream for you.
Your life serving Jehovah can be far greater than anything you could dream up for yourself.
Please, from this day forward, be determined to keep feeding and exercising your faith.